do you want to make money just for
posting reels on Instagram well now you
can
in January of 2022 Instagram released
reels bonuses where essentially you
could get paid for the amount of views
that you were getting on your reels but
then in early spring 2023 they canceled
the program which meant that creators
who were able to earn up to 35
000 a month previously with the program
could now not earn a penny from their
reels views Instagram CEO openly cited
that there were problems with the
program there were a lot of
inconsistencies and from Instagram's
perspective it wasn't very profitable or
beneficial there was also a lot of
pushback from users who reported that
their reels views were going down when
they joined the reels bonuses program
and it just wasn't really clear how much
you could actually earn based off of
each view that you received on your
reels so over the past few months a lot
of creators have been hung out to dry
without any way to get paid directly by
the platform for the views that they
were getting on their content that is
until now
Instagram just began rolling out a new
platform that is very similar to YouTube
AdSense where a Sen eventually you're
going to be able to enable Instagram to
allow other advertisers other businesses
to run ads attached to your content
specifically to your reels and then you
will get paid based off of the views
that your reels receive and I know your
initial reaction might be well I don't
want there to be an ad on every single
one of my reels and there isn't likely
going to be it's likely going to be like
when you're watching Youtube shorts
which by the way if you're watching this
podcast on YouTube right now you can
scroll through YouTube shorts and you'll
see very similar to Instagram stories
there's not an ad in between every
single short just like on Instagram
reels I doubt there will be an ad
between every single reel so this means
that there's not likely going to be an
advertisement put at the beginning of
every single one of your reels but it
does open up that possibility so that
advertisers can promote their products
or their offers at the beginning of your
reels now of course this is a brand new
feature so we don't know exactly how
it's going to look yet but my prediction
is that it's not going to necessarily be
showing up in the feed but rather we're
going to see reels and advertisements
placed on reels when you're scrolling
through the reels Tab and if any of you
use tick tock I think it's going to be
very similar to that so rather than
there being an advertisement that plays
for a few seconds and then your reel
starts playing instead it's going to be
shown maybe before or right after you're
real so if someone watches your reel and
then they scroll then they'll see the ad
or maybe they'll see the ad and then
they scroll and see you're real that's
my prediction as to what it's going to
look like and how it's actually going to
be consumed by the Instagram users but
of course that's yet to be seen and
these decisions are likely still being
made and of course this is totally up to
you any personal preference if this is
something you want to enable or not if
you want the monetization opportunity
and the chance to make money just from
the views that you're getting on your
reels then of course this is something
that you're going to want to turn on but
if you're someone who has already
monetized their reels through their own
means let's say you have a product
product that you're offering or
something that you're selling or
promoting or a business that you're
building through your Instagram reels so
then you might not want to turn on this
monetization status because you don't
want any ads that aren't your own
businesses ads or your own companies
offers attached to your reels this
program is going to be mainly beneficial
to those creators who don't have any
other way to monetize their content
they're not necessarily selling or
offering anything yet and so the ability
to let meta have ads placed on their
reels and thus earn an income from the
views on their reels is really the only
way they're going to be making money if
that's you if that's the case then you
are who this program is for and of
course this is absolutely nothing new
this is literally what YouTube has been
doing for over a decade with YouTube
AdSense now that we understand what it
is let's talk about how do you get
access to this feature well because it's
so new it's not exactly clear and
Instagram hasn't released guidelines on
how to get access to this new feature
but it's likely going to be rolled out
in the U.S first so you either should
live in the U.S or use a VPN so that
your account shows up as a us-based
account of course it will likely roll
out to other countries as well soon but
most new Instagram features begin in the
US and then work their way around the
world and we can also assume that you
have to meet the other qualifications
that Instagram usually has which means
having a professional profile either a
business or a Creator account meeting
their monetization guidelines and
policies and having a good account
status basically don't have any posts
that have been flagged or taken down and
don't do anything that violates
Instagram's guidelines and you should be
good to go and once you meet those
criteria pretty much you're just going
to have to sit back and wait from all of
our tests and from trying this out on
multiple accounts there isn't any real
way to unlock or earn this feature you
don't need a certain number of followers
or a certain number of views it seems
kind of random who is getting access to
this feature currently so once you meet
all of those qualifications really all
you can do is sit back and wait weight
and just make sure that your app is
constantly up to date when you do get
access to this feature you're most
likely going to be notified about it by
a little pop-up notification at the top
of your Instagram profile so I would
recommend checking your Instagram
profile every day at least once a day
just to see if you do have access to
this new feature the pop-up notification
will say something along the lines of
now you can earn with ads on your reels
and there's going to be a big blue
button that says get started once you
tap on that button it will give you a
brief introduction or overview as to
what ads on reels are but of course you
already know that because you've already
watched this podcast then you're going
to press get started again you're going
to be asked to actually turn on the
button and enable it and then press the
big button at the bottom that says
continue and then from there you're
pretty much set up and you don't have to
do anything else yourself you can
continue running your account you can
continue posting as you normally would
and anytime Instagram deems that your
reel fits their monetization standard
and an Advertiser thus can run ads on
your reel you will be paid for those
views now it's likely that the amount of
money that you're making per view is
relatively low we're talking less than
one penny per view but if you add that
up across all of your reels across 30
days that might equate to a couple
hundred if not a couple thousand dollars
just from posting content that you
otherwise would just like in the past
with the reels bonuses program the ads
on reels program will show you your
approximate earnings totals on your
Instagram insights where you would
normally see your number of engaged
followers and new followers that you
gained that month one useful feature
that Instagram has added to the ads on
reels program that I do find very
helpful and beneficial as a content
creator is they give you as the Creator
control a little bit over who can run
ads on your reels you actually have a
list of blocked accounts and blocked
categories and Instagram gives you
options to kind of sort through the
different categories of ad advertisers
and choose oh I don't want this kind of
Advertiser promoting on my reels so
maybe if there's something that you just
really don't align with or you feel that
it's really not valuable for your
audience like let's say books and
literature is something that you're like
my audience hates books they hate
reading they hate literature well then
you could block that category of ads
from showing up on your reels or this is
what I might recommend if you are going
to be turning on ads on reels and you
yourself fall into a specific category
you might want to block that category of
advertisements to be placed on your
reels to avoid a potential competitor
advertising their products or services
on your content so let's say you're a
chef you're in the food category and you
have an up-and-coming ebook that you're
going to be launching and you don't want
anyone else in the food category
advertising their recipe books their
cookbooks or their cooking utensils on
your reels well then you could block the
food category and then any advertisement
that falls into that category will not
be allowed to be run on your reel also
like I said there are blocked accounts
so you could even go through and block
specific advertisers or specific
competitors who you know run ads so that
they can't run any sort of ads on your
reels also I should say that if the
running of ads on reels is anything like
any of the other meta advertising
opportunities it's not like your
competitors are going to be able to
Choose You by name and say that they
want their products to show up at the
front of your reels that's not really
how it works that's not necessarily how
the targeting of ads within the meta
platforms Facebook and Instagram really
work but they could Target it pretty
closely so that their ads are likely
going to be showing up on your reels and
thus that might be a good reason for you
to block them or block the entire
category to avoid any sort of
competitors capitalizing on the views
that you are earning also as a Creator
there are limits on the kinds of reels
that you can monetize yourself and the
kinds of real that you can get paid for
the views that you have received on and
Instagram doesn't give us a exhaustive
list but they do give us a general list
of things to avoid or types of reels to
avoid posting if you want to receive
this payout if you want to continue to
be monetized and continue to be a part
of this ads on reels program some of the
things that Instagram recommends
avoiding at least avoiding for the ads
on reels program are reels that include
licensed music reels that are branded
content or sponsored by other companies
and Brands reels that are in a language
that the bonus program does not
currently support now Instagram again
doesn't give us an exhaustive list of
what those languages are or are not so
it's going to be a matter of trial and
error number four reels that are boosted
and this makes sense if you're paying
Instagram to give you more views they're
not then going to pay you for the views
that you just got if your reel is a
collaboration Reel with another user
you're not going to get access to those
views if you're real is watermarked
especially by a third third-party
platform AKA Tick Tock if your reel
receives engagement that the Instagram
algorithm deems as inauthentic like
maybe you've bought views or you've
bought engagement of course that would
deny you from being a part of this
program because you are essentially
again paying for views and Instagram
isn't then going to pay you for views
that you paid for they also give the
super General recommendation that if
your reel is not Advertiser friendly and
they do link to an additional blog post
where they share more information about
what is Advertiser friendly but
generally speaking if you're using
offensive language if you're talking
about political issues if you're sharing
something that Instagram deems to be
factually incorrect those sorts of
things are usually not Advertiser
friendly and finally of course if you're
real is deleted you can archive your
reel and still get paid for the views
that that reel received but if you
delete your reel completely remove it
from Instagram then any views that it
did accumulate while it was on Instagram
those views and thus the monetization or
the amount of payment that you would
have received from that reel will also
be deleted and removed I would love to
hear your thoughts though are you going
to enable ads on reels do you think that
this is a great step forward because
it's kind of like YouTube and it's going
to allow creators to earn an income
directly from Instagram or is it
something that you think is just another
way that Instagram is going to crowd our
feeds with advertisements and another
thing that's going to drive users away
from Instagram personally I'm a fan of
this program and I think that this is
how reels bonuses was meant to be run
ultimately Real's bonuses was a way to
incentivize us to start posting reels
and it worked now people are posting
reels more than ever before but from
Instagram's point of view it's not
sustainable to just be paying people for
the views they receive Instagram as a
business needs to make money off of
those views and then in turn can pay us
a small slice of that pie essentially
that's what YouTube has been doing for
well over a decade and it seems to be
working pretty well on YouTube and most
people are a fan of the monetization
opportunities on YouTube I will say if
we take a step backwards and analyze
monetization opportunities online you
should never be relying on these
platforms to pay you because it's not
something you can control Instagram can
cancel reals bonuses YouTube can change
their monetization policies Tick Tock
can change how much you're getting paid
per view and so it's never going to be a
very reliable way to earn an income
whether you're a Creator or a business
owner ultimately you should have
multiple streams of income you should
have streams of income that you can
control products offers and
opportunities that you are selling or
making available yourself rather than
just relying on you know fingers crossed
hopes and prayers that these platforms
are going to pay you well that's never
going to be a very reliable strategy but
with all that said if you do have ways
to monetize your platform and you're
following besides just ads on reels or
YouTube AdSense I am a fan of this
program I think it's a way that some
smaller creators are going to be able to
make some money some people who haven't
quite had the chance the opportunity the
knowledge the the time the energy the
effort whatever to actually create an
offer yet this might be a way for them
to earn a couple of bucks and maybe fund
the building of a monetization
opportunity or a stream of income that's
going to be more profitable in the long
run so overall I am a fan of this
program and the opportunities that it
prevents I likely will be turning it on
myself on my own profile just to test
and see how it goes but I likely won't
have it on forever it's something that I
want to experiment with so that I can
inform you on how it's going but it's
not something that I necessarily want to
leave on indefinitely because I think
that for me personally the benefit of
maybe a hundred bucks a month from
Instagram is far outweighed by the
negative of a potential Advertiser
advertising on my reels but we'll see
that could change in the future again
let me know down in the comments of this
YouTube video what are your thoughts is
this something that you are going to be
enabling on your Instagram let me know
also speaking of letting me know I
wanted to let you know about this really
cool new opportunity that we just
started on build your tribe and this is
the first time that we are going to be
talking about this first time I've told
anyone about this totally free this is
not an advertisement or a promotion this
is just a cool way that we can interact
and I'm excited about it if you couldn't
tell by the tone and pace of my speaking
but you can go to
speakpipe.com forward slash build your
tribe
s-p-e-a-k-p-i-p-e speak pype.com forward
slash build your tribe and you can leave
us a voicemail so I would love for you
to do that to hear from you hear a
review of the podcast or even really
specifically what I would love to hear
from you is a question we will now be
taking your called in questions on the
podcast and so I would love to have the
opportunity on our next episode the one
that comes out on Thursday or next
Tuesday to hear from you to hear your
voice to hear what questions you have
any questions relating to growing on
Instagram building a business on Tick
Tock how to build your phone following
on social media or bigger picture
business questions like building an
email list and converting customers into
super fans we would love to hear from
you so again go to speakpipe.com forward
slash build your tribe and leave us a
voicemail you have the opportunity of
hearing your own voice on a future
episode of build your tribe but thank
you so much for listening today I really
appreciate it thank you so much for
tuning in if you haven't already please
consider pressing that subscribe button
so you can get more future episodes it's
totally free to do so and we're
providing tons of valuable content for
you to help you grow your business and
make more money online again thank you
so much for being here and as always
happy networking
[Music]
thank you